# Deploy a Web App

To improve the sales of your web app, you decided to deploy a free-to-use, publicly-available instance. The infrastructure has to be as cheap and simple as it's possible, and you are not concerned with security and private networking - it's a perfect use case for the Azure App Services. 

In this task, you will deploy a web app to Azure App Services (Azure Web App). 

## Prerequisites

Before completing any task in the module, make sure that you followed all the steps described in the **Environment Setup** topic, in particular: 

1. Ensure you have an [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/free/) account and subscription.

2. Create a resource group called *“mate-resources”* in the Azure subscription.

3. In the *“mate-resources”* resource group, create a storage account (any name) and a *“task-artifacts”* container.

4. Install [PowerShell 7](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/installing-powershell?view=powershell-7.4) on your computer. All tasks in this module use PowerShell 7. To run it in the terminal, execute the following command: 
    ```
    pwsh
    ```

5. Install [Azure module for PowerShell 7](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/install-azure-powershell?view=azps-11.3.0): 
    ```
    Install-Module -Name Az -Repository PSGallery -Force
    ```
If you are a Windows user, before running this command, please also run the following: 
    ```
    Set-ExecutionPolicy -ExecutionPolicy RemoteSigned -Scope CurrentUser
    ```

6. Log in to your Azure account using PowerShell:
    ```
    Connect-AzAccount -TenantId <your Microsoft Entra ID tenant id>
    ```

## Requirements

Today you will mostly work in Azure Portal. To complete this task, perform the following steps: 

1. Create a resource group, called 'mate-azure-task-19'

2. Follow the [tutorial](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/container-registry-get-started-portal?tabs=azure-powershell) to deploy [Azure Container Registry](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/container-registry-intro). Azure Container Registry (or ACR for short) - is an Azure PaaS service for private Docker container registry, which is fully integrated with other Azure products, like App Services. **When deploying the ACR, make sure to use 'Basic' SKU.**

3. Clone this repository, build a Docker image for the application in the `/app` folder, and push it to the ACR you deployed in the previous step. The image must be called 'todoapp' (so the full image name will look like this: '<acr-name>.azurecr.io/todoapp:v1').  

4. Follow the [tutorial](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/training/modules/deploy-run-container-app-service/5-exercise-deploy-web-app?pivots=csharp) to create a Web App for containers. Use the image, you pushed to the ACR in the previous step. 

5. Check that app is working, and enjoy the simplicity of the Azure Web Apps :sunglasses:

6. Run artifacts generation script `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1`;

7. Test yourself using the script `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1`;

8. Make sure that changes `result.json` are committed to the repo, and submit the solution for review; 

9. When the solution is validated, delete the resources you deployed.


## How to Complete Tasks in This Module 

Tasks in this module are relying on 2 PowerShell scripts: 

- `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1` generates the task “artifacts” and uploads them to cloud storage. An “artifact” is evidence of a task completed by you. Each task will have its own script, which will gather the required artifacts. The script also adds a link to the generated artifact in the `artifacts.json` file in this repository — make sure to commit changes to this file after you run the script. 
- `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1` validates the artifacts generated by the first script. It loads information about the task artifacts from the `artifacts.json` file.

Here is how to complete tasks in this module:

1. Clone task repository;

2. Make sure you completed the steps, described in the Prerequisites section;

3. Complete the task described in the Requirements section;

4. Run `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1` to generate task artifacts. The script will update the file `artifacts.json` in this repo;

5. Run `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1` to test yourself. If tests are failing — follow the recommendations from the test script error message to fix or re-deploy your infrastructure. When you are ready to test yourself again — **re-generate the artifacts** (step 4) and re-run tests again; 

6. When all tests will pass — commit your changes and submit the solution for review. 

Pro tip: if you are stuck with any of the implementation steps, run `scripts/generate-artifacts.ps1` and `scripts/validate-artifacts.ps1`. The validation script might give you a hint on what to do.  
